DXARTS 461: Final CommentaryFor my final piece I decided to use several synthesis techniques to compose music. For the start, I decided to synthesise my bells according to the Risset bell and with the use of enveloping and adding harmonics to the bells; I tried creating the beginning of Mutations by Jean Claude Risset. Risset uses a lot of bells along with filtering and delaying. My composition is not exactly a replica of Mutations, but my own rendition of how I would modify the beginning of Mutations, (Time Reference: 0:00 to 0:15) and use techniques I learnt such as panning, attacking and adding harmonics to bells followed by changing frequencies to bring out my own effect in Mutations. I was very inspired by the Shepard’s Tone that Risset uses in Mutations from the beginning of the 4 minute mark till 4 minutes and 57 seconds. I decided to re-create that for my composition and make a rendition of the Shepard’s tone by using techniques like additive synthesis and enveloping to bring out the build up effect. There was also a use of delays in the sound to bring out the reverb effect. We notice that Risset used an linear increase in frequency in his Shepard’s tone at the end of Mutations. Having this being my influence i have tried re-creating the ending of Mutations, with having a rise in the pitch over time. However in my piece i have used additional synthesis techniques like granular synthesis and Frequency modulation after and before the shepherd’s tone unlike in Risset’s Mutations. I feel that a granular synthesis adds more detail to my track and brings out a better effect when layered in with the frequency modulation and bell tones produced during the end of my track. (Time Reference: 2:30 to 3:00) To conclude, I decided to compose a track in which I chose particular sounds that are present in Mutations by Jean Clause Risset and recreated them to sound like a bassoon or clarinet and built upon that I have made my own composition, which includes techniques like Amplitude and Frequency Modulation and modulating the gain along with the carrier frequency. In Risset is Mutation; we notice from 2:46 to 3:00 minutes that Risset has used effects like delaying and attacking along with passing filters to a bassoon sounding like tone. That inspired me into creating this composition based upon that tone, and I hence further chose to modify and add more sounds to the composition by using multiple synthesis and modulation techniques.  